i remember seeing in the bio settings of
this motherboard this very expensive
motherboard an option for pci express
hot swap
which i have never personally tried
before but what it sounds like is just
putting pci express cards in and taking
them off while this system is running
is that going to work
wow i actually super don't know so let's
find out
after i tell you about pia private
internet access encrypts all your
internet traffic and uses a safe
protected ip and it's got a ton of other
useful features you can check it out now
at the link below
[Music]
so uh there's lots of things in a
computer that are hot swappable and that
we hot swap every day so usb for example
even though you would safely remove the
device theoretically with the you know
little prompt in the bottom corner
anytime you are taking something out or
putting something in
without powering off first it is
technically hot swap and some standards
that don't
support hot swap like ps2 keyboards for
example
you can still for the most part hot swap
them without any ill effects with all of
that said there are components out there
that either cannot be hot swapped or
have to be specifically designed for hot
swap in order to
function with it even components like
cpus and memory
can
actually be hot swap but that's more of
a server level feature where the system
itself and usually some kind of a of a
daughter board that that slides in or
whatever else has to be designed for it
because you can't just you can't just
cut power to uh to a computer component
and expect everything to operate
normally
now as for pci express
i confess
i haven't done a ton of research coming
into this
so it's possible that the device itself
also needs to be designed for hot swap
but then it's possible
that it doesn't i don't know where we're
going to find out today
for those of you wondering the the titan
x here
i will not be hot swapping that that's
just here so that we have a display
output i think it's time for us to go
find some victims
so this is our selection of random pci
express cards that
are of sort of dubious value
uh these actually got for free in
scrapyard wars you know what let's start
with these
okay so uh
oh yeah before we do this i should
probably enable hot swap
ah
there it is
no idea what any of these settings do
sure
looks good to me
i wonder what's better black slots or
gray slots
i'm gonna try a gray slot
oh this feels so wrong
[Music]
okay
nothing catastrophic appears to have
happened
okay it's not showing up
let's try a restart
stop code driver power state failure
go ahead and cut
okay so one of three things happened
here either you have to actually power
off for it to be detected we're gonna
try that first
or
we killed it
it was dead already which is quite
possible this has been sitting on a
shelf for literally years
either way it can go over there now
all right
now this
i am at least
40 percent sure works
okay
whoa now hold on a minute
whoa hold on a minute
i think that's more usb than we had
before
okay
don't cut this clip because no one's
gonna believe me
if we cut this clip
[Music]
maybe i was wrong
go ahead and cut
so after powering down
and turning it back on
it's working
did it not show up
because the system had never seen this
device before
oh oh oh ouch
oh uncorrectable error ouch go ahead and
cut we're gonna disable it
then
we're gonna pull it
[Music]
we hot unplugged something
am i gonna get away with a hardware
changes scan
i'm starting to wonder if these are just
bugged on this computer
look
it's still in there
but i know for a fact
see i can prove that the hardware is not
in there
let's just go for it
oh damn it
go ahead and cut
i'm gonna grab a different boot drive
go ahead
all right let's try a more fresh windows
[Music]
enable
oh there it goes
[Music]
go ahead and cut
maybe the black slots are bad luck
you let me down buddy
go ahead and cut
maybe we just need to try something
that's not a storage device how about
this network card
go ahead and cut so what we think we
know so far is that we haven't actually
killed any of the hardware we've been
experimenting with
i did find a couple potential
sacrificial cards here so this is like a
and then this is that titan that we
brutally
savaged
[Music]
so the amd card seems to have given zero
f's
just like the network card
um go ahead and cut this is like an og
titan it's not it's not very high end
anymore neither of them are showing up
let's try a restart here
oh my god is that windows up i hate it
[Music]
go ahead and cut
okay so we're having problems booting at
all go ahead and cut good cut go ahead
and cut
holy sh
no oh my what the
don't prompt again
no
so the amd card is showing up now
i think what we have to do
is try some more modern hardware
a 750 series ssd
and let's try a more modern graphics
card a 1050 ti
[Music]
oh
fans turned on
[Music]
that one's definitely getting power
come on
really
[Music]
has to be a driver thing
so let's see
if at least after just a soft reset
they show up
because that will tell us if maybe
windows is the issue
wait what
the graphics card's not showing up
[Music]
let's
pull the ssd
[Music]
off
let's fire up windows server go ahead
and cut
okay okay bye
uh so i'm an idiot um
you don't have to enable this i didn't
even read it this just says you have to
enable this if your os does not support
pci express hot
plug ahead and cut
so let's go straight for gold
[Music]
no here goes the usb drive
nope network
[Music]
can linux handle it better
it showed up and then it crashed
while we were trying linux i was
preparing a server
2016 installation oh shut up
best case scenario so we have the
presence of mind to disable it before we
pull it
[Music]
maybe there's some options or something
go ahead and cut
okay so we've reached the point in this
project where it's time to talk to tech
support um
and i did find a really interesting
article so this is an intel white paper
about their data center ssds but as you
guys might have noticed when we were
booted into
ubuntu
this ssd shows up as one of their data
center ssds they're actually based on a
very very similar platform in fact i
believe they use the same pcb even so i
was really hoping that this would behave
similarly and they do support hot swap
pcie including
surprise hot add or hot remove
but
native os hot plug no
so we need to
have
that off
okay
bios hot plug support is only for if it
doesn't support it natively which this
says windows does
and we have to ensure that surprise hot
plug registers are set correctly
so i'm gonna try this
while i wait for asus to get back to me
go ahead and cut
oh no
go away
all right well i guess if it never
detects it it can never
crash
go ahead and cut
i think i've been going about this all
wrong
i saw
pci express hot plug in the bios
and i went
yeah
heck yeah these slots
but what if what if they actually mean
pci express storage over u.2
so this board is actually really unique
come have a look at this in that it has
four this is part of what it's using all
those pcie lanes on the cpu for it has
four u.2 connectors so these
are technically 4x pcie slots
effectively you can actually just run a
cable off of them
and plug them into a 16x slot
what they're intended for though are
nvme drives like this one this is the
same drive as this it's just that
instead of this it's got this
so the board might only be set up for
that
on these lanes
i mean it's less dramatic looking but
this is still potentially really cool
which means
go ahead and cut
so i am not defeated
our wonderful contacted asus gary
has actually worked over the weekend it
turns out the features there on the
board
and it's exposed in the bios
it's not enabled
so they have provided me with a beta
bios that should enable it
i actually wasn't that far off
the board is only
specifically designed
to support this hot plug functionality
on the u.2 ports
so theoretically when i flash this bios
it will enable or unlock that
functionality
close
up
update time
this is weird it dropped me right into
the bios which means
i don't know what's going on
even a sata drive isn't showing up as
bootable in here so like
there it is can't boot to it
it's not even beta bios it's like alpha
bios
okay you can cut
i sent asus a complaining thing about
not being able to boot
and i got back
did you rtfm
they sent me instructions for a bunch of
bio stuff to reconfigure in order to
enable it
we're gonna do that
i mean i thought it was just a bios
update
[Music]
okay so there is some crazy stuff in
here i'm supposed to go to socket 1
ports 1a to 1d
and here
is where i am
enabling hot plug and surprise hot plug
for my u.2 ports
okay this is great news
reading the manual
i want to see this
work
that's interesting
go ahead and cut okay this is the raid
driver we need
[Music]
there it is
okay where's my drive
yeah yeah yeah yeah whatever okay
here it is
[Music]
there it is
but
off camera
i had another idea
so
there's hot plug options in the bios for
other pci express uh
slots on this board but asus has
specifically told me that there's like a
finished system that uses this board as
a base that has a special backplane that
enables the pci express slots themselves
to be hot pluggable but that the
standalone board doesn't do it so given
that following their instructions so far
has been my best bet i'm going to take
their word for it but i have something
special
this is a u.2 to pci express adapter
so what i'm going to do
is i'm going to take what is effectively
again a pci express slot
and i want
to hot plug it
i don't know if this is going to work
oh no dice
why don't we try this one
okay now
oh
you know what
no
how far has listening to manufacturer
instructions ever gotten anyone
so
we're going to change not just ports 1a
to 1d
we're going to change all of the ports
to surprise hot plug and hot plug
and we are just going to yolo it and see
what happens
one last
hurrah
so something i don't know is if turning
on hot plug on the slots could have some
kind of adverse effect on
some other functionality
so first things first
this is my best bet for hot pluggable
just sanity check i want to try off the
u.2 again
see it's powered though see this is what
this is what's
whoa
[Music]
it's it's on
it works
oh it really works check it out check it
out activity led
it's fast even writing
crazy
now i want to push my luck
[Music]
oh
it handled it gracefully
the craziest thing is i didn't even have
to like refresh device manager it was
just like it was like plugging in a usb
device
so now we're gonna try the network card
[Music]
usb card maybe
do you see that
right there
no
okay hold on hold on
usb stick
check this out
no it's working
that's that usb drive
now what we need to see
is no blue screen
it's gone
no blue screen
hot plug pcie
okay
show me that drive activity
[Music]
maybe it just
oh that is crazy
now maybe it's slot specific
i want to see this server network card
work
i'm like shaking which is not good i
mean that's the
most dangerous part of this apparently
it's like
screwing up and like touching metal on
some contacts here something
total madness there it is
there it is
i want to see it work though
[Music]
we are on the internet on a hot plugged
okay
do we keep pushing the boundaries
brandon
do you want to see a video card
who do we punish nvidia or amd
nvidia
what they ever do to you
all right here we go
okay fans are on
i can't even believe this
no
way
holy sh
do you think it's gonna let me just like
install a game or install the driver and
like
run a game like
is this as crazy as i think it is we're
just plugging and unplugging cards from
a motherboard willy-nilly it's on
[Music]
we gotta show that there's no there's no
tricks here
like
look this bench
not plugged in
this is nothing nothing
nothing here
this nothing nothing
unbelievable
this device is working properly
i mean is basically everything going to
work
here
the avermedia tv tuner card
let's go back to the very first thing we
tried
i want to see this system compatibility
checking can you imagine that just pop a
graphics card in your system and
install the driver and go
holy crap it worked
you saw it here first my friends
hot swapping
pci express cards
in a powered system
because you're just a mega baller like
that
and you don't play by the rules
wow
this video brought to you by noble
chairs their icon series real leather
edition includes real leather and it's
available in three different color
variants with different stitching
patterns they're designed in germany and
inspired by luxury sports car interiors
and they have fully adjustable height
and recline with a sophisticated locking
mechanism they're available in real and
polyurethane leather and you can buy
them now at newegg at the link in the
video description
so thanks for watching guys if you
disliked this video then you can hit
that button but if you liked it hit like
get subscribed
know that it's real that driver is
actually done installing so we've got
our titan x and our 1050 ti both
recognized
uh
uh while you're in the video description
you can also check out our merch store
which has cool shirts like this one and
our community forum which is a cool
place to go talk tech whether it's you
know just hey what should i build for my
next gaming system or if it's something
as random and bizarro land as this
unbelievable